---
layout: oralhistory
interviewee: Jim
interviewer: Chavonte
excerpt:
---

[]: # (This is uncleaned, I just wanted to get it up for Kalani to be able to stylize the page.
 Person is Jim, but uploaded under the original file name.)

190929_1357 Transcription:
Chavonte: I’m Chavonte and I’m here with Jim and he is going to share his story and his
connection to this community, he is our interviewee number 6!

Jim: Thank you, Chavonte.

 I first ran for public office in 1982, and, um, this area was in
the house district.
 And I was, I was given a tip that, uh, it might be a good idea to come to Long
and visit with Maise Clemens, who is a direct descendant of James Clemens.
 So, I called Maise
and made an appointment, and when it came time for the day I came to his house and he took me
into the kitchen and we sat down, to the kitchen table, with his wife Marie and with his good
friends Velma and Willard Epps from PPS.
 And they were kinda like the, uh, patriarchs of the
neighborhood.
 And so, we talked for about two hours, and they asked me a lot of pretty straight
questions.
 We had a dialogue which was very good.
 They wanted to know why was I running for
state representative, and what do I do, blah blah blah.
 And so, I, we had that conversation and we
got done, Maise basically said “well, we like the way you answered the questions, we like your
dialogue, we think you’ll get a lot of support out there.
” So, I ran and I did.
 I got about 85% of
the vote.
 But, my roots are agriculture, just as this area, agriculture.
 So, I spent a career and never
forgot that the significance of the people in this area is so strong, because the heritage here is
different.
 Most people know that, that this area was in the underground railroad.
 Most people do
not know that the settlers here were freed slaves before the Civil War.
 They were freed
indentured slaves, they weren’t… most people don’t know .
 So, and, the people whose roots are
here have gone on generational, generational, generational, they’re successful, hard working
people.
 And, I’ve never forgotten that, and as a result of my association and my work, um, in my
house district, [?] house district, this is a very large agriculture area here, and my house district
produces about 15% of total food production in Ohio every year.
 It’s large in livestock and
poultry and corn and beans and so on.
 It’s very successful with rural families.
 And so, I’ve spent
a career promoting that in Columbus and wherever I go.
 And so, I retired from the House in
2016.
 And so, I got involved in a project in 2011 in which I, uh, I decided to try agriculture
education in areas that it isn’t currently being utilized.
 In areas specifically is cities.
 So, I have
started a pilot project with the school, now this isn’t directly related to Longtown, but it is
indirectly a relationship of what I’ve lived with, and the friendships and the families who are the
icons of this area.
 The, the Burdens and the Goens and the Carpenters , and all the people that
are descendants in this room today.
 And, and because of the way they’ve lived their lives, and
because of the examples in leadership they’ve set, why not do that everywhere? So, here, so as a
result, Cleveland East Technical High School and Gamble High School in Cincinnati, have been
two pilots that I was able to get the support of the governor in the House and the Senate to put
these, they have FFA, Future Farmers of America, in those two high schools, and then in
Cleveland, 6 blocks down the street from East Tech at George Washington Carver K-8, they
have 4H curriculum in the classroom.
 A teacher gets every kid in that school one period a week
to talk about farm to plate to 4H.
 Then, in the school, after school, they have 4H clubs, just like
4H clubs do everywhere.
 They have projects that they work on.

Chavonte: Could you explain what 4H is?

Jim: 4H is heart, head, hands, and health.
 It’s an agricultural organization for youth.
 Kids,
it’s basically an, in rural areas the kids have their projects and they compete at the fair.
 Like pigs
and turkeys and chickens and cattle and that sort of thing.
 So yeah, most people don’t know
about it.
 What 4H and FFA education is, Chavonte, what it is is farm to plate education using
agriculture as a means to become productive solutions[?].
 Uh, you have to be 8 or 9 years old to
be eligible to be a member of a 4H club, alright? But 4H teaches manufacturing.
 Whereby when
a child puts a grain of corn in the ground and then ends up with an ear of corn, they’ve made
corn.
 That’s manufacturing.
 I, it’s, you talk about workforce development, that’s the beginning
of it.
 In Ohio, and I’m sure it’s similar in Indiana, 1 out of 7 jobs here is agriculture related.

Now, that’s not corn and beans, but it’s all of the ancillary jobs and industries that go in about
food production and so on.
 Everything comes out of food, so the idea is to allow students to
become successful and develop productive lives through agriculture.
 Now, we have 608 public
schools in Ohio.
 300 of them have FFA.
 We are short ag teachers.
 The only 2 schools in Ohio
that have a 4 year, accredited agriculture teaching degree are The Ohio State University and
Wilmington College.
 Last year and in 2014, Central State University, have you ever heard of
Central State? It’s a historic black, it’s an 1890 land grant school.
 It’s over in Wilberforce, Ohio,
near Dayton.
 Historic black university, it now has land grant status which means it has a college
of agriculture.
 So, they’re focusing on becoming a teaching school for teachers.
 So, we’re
recruiting students to become, who want to go into agriculture, to take a look at becoming
teachers.

Chavonte: For agriculture?

Jim: Yeah.
 So, that’s a package and the results are astounding.

Chavonte: All of this coming from your experience over the years with this community here?

Jim: Yeah, a lot of this community is the result, yeah, a result of what’s happened in this
community for years.
 That’s my story.

Chavonte: Thank you so much for sharing! I think that’s incredible.

Jim: You won’t hear another story like this around.
 But it’s brand new, and the [????] is,
yesterday, here’s what’s happening.
 Now where did you tell me your home was originally?

Chavonte: Houston.

Jim: Houston! Okay.
 Yesterday, in Cincinnati, part of this project in Cincinnati.
 A group
of people from Cincinnati have recruited over 60 adults to become 4H club advisors.
 A Central
State extension has sent people to Cincinnati, teaching those adults how to become advisors for
4H clubs.
 What they’ve done is they’ve identified 19 vacant lots in Cincinnati, all size, different
shapes.
 One of them is 5 and ½ acres in the middle of a housing block.
 What they’re gonna do is
they’re gonna clear those lots and they’re gonna create “pocket parks,” which are really
vegetable gardens and fruit orchards and so on.
 And what they’re gonna do as they develop a lot,
they’re gonna have a 4H club that’s gonna take that on as their project.
 They’re gonna maintain
that.
 The bigger lots are gonna have, uh, greenhouses put on them, and they’re gonna be
managed by the 4H kids too.
 And so, this is gonna be a total program, eventually, whereby
you’re gonna have oodles of 4H clubs, not only maintaining these lots, but having 4H clubs in
the neighborhood as well as, there are 16 high schools in Cincinnati, and they want every high
school to have FFA just like Gamble does.
 And there are 46 K-12 elementaries, and they want
them to have 4H in the classroom just like Rosenberg [???].
 So, you’re gonna have a total
agriculture education package in Cincinnati and I'll give you the example of at East Tech High
School, in Cleveland.
 They started out their first year of FFA at the high school.
 The previous
year they had 46% graduation of that senior class.
 By the end of the 4th year, they were over
80%.
 And, the top 6 graduating seniors… the valedictorian, salutatorian, next 4 ranking
members, were all FFA members.
 They’re excited about hands-on learning [?????????].
 I’m not
sure if that has any interest for you or not, but I thought I’d mention it.

Chavonte: No, no, I think it had a lot to do with this neighborhood and itss projects.

Jim: People who come from this neighborhood have had a direct influence on my
perspective as to what we can do to help agriculture.
 In other words, twenty years from now, if
every… my goal is in Ohio, to have 4H and FFA in every school building.
 If we did that, twenty
years from now we wouldn’t be talking about getting rid of guns, we would be talking about all
the good things that have happened with the families that are productive.
 And the opportunities
are unlimited.
 Kids are, they’re… a mile and a half from East Tech High School is a big Italian
bakery.
 450 people work there.
 When the, when the HR director found out that East Tech had
FFA education, he looked at the teacher and said “I’ll take 20 of your kids every year.
” After
school, part-time, in the summer, when they graduate they’ll have a full time job here, if they
wanna go on to post-graduate work, we’ll help them, because we need more dough-makers here.

We need salespeople, we need engineers, we need everybody, I’ll take you.
 And I know that the
kids that are going through FFA, when the work starts at 6 o’clock every morning, they’re there
at 6 o’clock everyday, they wanna be successful.
 That’s the effect of what we’re talking about.

Workforce development.
 Now what grade are you in?
 
Chavonte: I am in my second year of graduate school, I’m 25.

Jim: Well, uh, 25, I’m 79 going on 50.

Chavonte: Yeah, haha.

Jim: I never grew up.

Chavonte: Good for you, that’s an accomplishment.

Jim: Yeah, I’m semi-retired… I only work about 70 hours a week… I dropped down from
100.
 Alright, now what are you majoring in?
