---
layout: tour
building: 
folder: 
title: ""
Interviewer: Kennedy Johnson
---

*Interviewer:* This is Kennedy Johnson with... Cleo? Is that your name? Cleo, and this is object number 11. So can you go back to what you were just talking about?

*Participant:* The home?

**[there’s a lot of weird mumbling in this part that I can’t really make sense of... it might make more sense to you since you were there? I can’t really make sense of all the different voices and stuff]**


*Participant:* Now that was made around 1980, something. My brother was there. But this is the beginning of that,

*Participant 2:* So Grandma, they wanna listen to you talk about it and record it, but they also wanna take pictures to have the pictures of them too. So, they’re doing both at the same time kind of. So, they want, so she wants you to talk about what the things are and then explain them... is that correct

*Interviewer 2:* Yeah, after I get like all the objects....

*Participant 2:* So she wants to know what, can you tell her... Grandma, can you tell her what these things are first? Like, tell her what this is so she can write it down

*Interviewer 2:* Just really fast...

*Participant:* That’s an air picture, we didn’t have electricity until I was in the teens. [???] high school. And we got electric, they made radios too... I didn’t, until that I didn’t hear anything.

*Participant 2:* What about this?

*Participant:* that was just, they just asked me if I had any souvenirs that would be [????].

*Participant 2:* Is it like a fancy... does it go this way? 

*Participant:* No, it’s this way

*Interviewer 2:* And, where did you get it from?

*Participant:* It’s my mother’s, I don’t know where she got it. It was just in the house, and I inherited it, it was just stuck back, and I brought it. So, I think it just belongs to the house.

*Interviewer 2:* No that’s fine! We’re like playing with the [????], it’s fine.

*Participant:* Now, that’s my mother’s too. I don’t know when it was made or anything, but my mother used that to put her thread and stuff in.

*Participant 2:* Inside of it though she does have, like, little embroidery things....

*Participant:* This is some of the same things in those two go together, this is stuff that my mother [lots and lots of chatter... wasn’t sure if I should transcribe this]

*Participant 2:* These are like books, with names of everyone who was a part of....

*Participant:* Those are, I got those from Mary whatshername,
[ lots of chatter]

*Participant:* My mother and father lived in, I said lived in this church, they *came* to this church. I was a little girl, I don’t remember going anywhere else but here. They probably laid me on the sink when they came here, because they, you know, back in those days you take care of the church. This one book was before I was born, my mother grew up in this city.

*Participant 2:* So what is this book?

*Participant:* That’s the other one, the hardback one.
[more chattering

*Interviewer 2:* which one are the minutes of the church? 

*Participant:* Both of ‘em, both of these are the church. One starts in 1917 to 1922, and the other goes to 1922 to 1925.

[??????]

[The end of this recording seems to just be a lot of people figuring out things, I’m not sure if it was meant to be recorded or not!] 