---
layout: tour
building: 
folder: 
title: ""
Interviewer: Justin Hawkins
---

**NOTE: I did my best to tell the two sister’s voices apart, but I mostly had to guess. **

Justin Hawkins: This is Justin Hawkins, 2019 History Harvest, interview number 12. And who do I have here today?

Julia Boatman: Julia Boatman

Loretta Taylor: And Loretta Taylor. We were the Hickmans. 

Justin Hawkins: And you’re sisters, correct?

Loretta Taylor: Yes, uhuh.

Justin Hawkins: Why don’t you just tell me a little about your childhood, your family...

Julia Boatman: Well, we ended up here because my, my mother married, her mother I’m sorry. My mother’s mother, sorry.

Justin Hawkins: Your grandmother.

Julia Boatman: Yeah, my grandmother was from Detroit and she married a gentleman named Clifford Epps. And, she then, those two moved out here. So, that’s how we ended up out here because when my mom and dad got married, they rented one of their houses on their property.

Justin Hawkins: And what was their profession?

Julia Boatman: Farmers.

Justin Hawkins: And what do you... do you have a favorite memory? Maybe not a... do you have a memory? Does that...

Loretta Taylor: My grandparents lived on Ross Road, large farm, house and several farm buildings, and that was my father’s father...

Julia Boatman: Right, it was his... 

Loretta Taylor: Always loved to go to their house, their huge house.
Justin Hawkins: What did you like to do over at your grandparents house?

Julia Boatman: I was known as the “Epps Pets,” and I got to go over there quite a bit. Just, being around them. At that time our grandmother would have us do ironing and stuff like that. Yeah, that was probably when I was 8, 9, 10 years old.

Loretta Taylor: One summer my grandmother would help us to earn money. She would hire us to iron her pillow slips and sheets, that’s what people did back then. And, we cleaned her house for her because she had a lot of wood. We’d dust for her, and that’s what our jobs were in the summertime. Working for her and helping her keep the house up. Um, I liked to be outside, so my grandfather did have a couple of horses a long time ago. I was really too small to ride them, but I remember his horses and, uh, we have a lot of cows and sheep, so we like the animals too. And then he had pigs. Oh, he raised a special pig. I don’t remember what kind it was, but every year at the fair, a long long time ago at the Darke County Fair, he actually entered these pigs into the, uh, the, whatever, the...

Justin Hawkins: The contest?

Loretta Taylor: The contest. They were supposedly really good pigs, they were huge. We do have pictures of them at home, of this pig that he helped, you know, raise and stuff like that. They were really a good pig that a lot of farmers wanted to buy and stuff,

Justin Hawkins: Now, did they ever tell you any stories that stick out to you in your memory?

Julia Boatman: [???] lot’s of stories, but age has taken it. So, yeah. But, my aunt out in Colorado has a lot of information [????]. 

Loretta Taylor: I remember coming here to church a lot, [???], being involved in vacation bible school, [?????]. The kids, we’d all get together. So, we knew each other from school and then we all went to the Palestine school down the road here.

Justin Hawkins: And was that... what ages was that for?

Loretta Taylor: Oh, that was, oh gosh. That was, we went to school and started in 1957, okay.

Justin Hawkins: Oh I meant more like, uh, was it like first grade through twelfth grade, or...

Loretta Taylor: Oh yeah, first through...

Julia Boatman: Kindergarten, a month-long kindergarten [??????????].

Justin Hawkins: And that went, right, did you ever go to any other schools for like primary education, or?

Loretta Taylor: We went to, let’s see, after that, that was first grade through eighth, and then we had Westmont which was our high school. And, uh, we went there for four years. But then we consolidated with another community, because the schools were, you know, [????]. So, we consolidated in Madison High School. And they, they made that the Tri-Village High School, so I graduated there. I was after the consolidation. So, Westmont was before consolidating, and Tri-Village was after.

Justin Hawkins: Now, did your parents farm as well, like your grandparents? Or what did they do?

Loretta Taylor: Dad farmed for *Cliff *c uz my grandfather had about 500 acres of property, so my dad was a mechanic here in Greenville. At night he would come home and also farm with my grandfather. Some nights he would be out in the field for him too. But my grandfather had a few other men farming for him too. It was sort of like, I don’t know. They all helped him farm the land, he had about three or four farmers that helped him farm his land. 

Julia Boatman: I think he rented it...

Loretta Taylor: Rented it out to them or something. Uh, what else.

Julia Boatman: We just lived, they lived up on Ross Road, we lived on Holmes [???], which was probably about a half a mile South. In a farmhouse. That was our grandfather’s also, until my mom and dad bought it years later.
Justin Hawkins: So what did you two do for your careers, or?

Julia Boatman: Uh, as an adult, I became a nurse, back in, oh, I think it was [????]
Justin Hawkins: And where did you study?

Julia Boatman: I went to [????] School for LPD and then Edison State for my RN. And I [?????].

Justin Hawkins: And so, because I’m not familiar with the area, is that close to here?

Julia Boatman: Uh, pretty close

Justin Hawkins: Yeah, so that’s right across the border?
[??????????????????????]

Julia Boatman: It’s the county seat, Edison State is in Edgebrook, Ohio.
Justin Hawkins: Oh, okay.

Loretta Taylor: And, let’s see, I went to [???] State after I left the village, I didn’t graduate there, later on I went to Sinclair College and became an electronics engineer, technician. Did that for a few years, and then I went to school for massage therapy. So, I used to do that for a while. Now I’m retired.

Julia Boatman: And what do you do now?

Loretta Taylor: What I do now? Oh, because of my love of horses from when my grandfather lived out here, at the age of 58, I ended up getting horses. I always wanted horses, all my life. 

Julia Boatman: Rescue horses.

Loretta Taylor: Yeah, and I ended up getting 4 rescue horses that I have now that I [???].

Justin Hawkins: No kidding? That’s great. It looped around,

Loretta Taylor: It looped around, yeah. I never got over that. I did have a pony growing up, but I never got a horse. So, eventually my husband surprised me with a horse and then I ended up getting three more horses. So, yeah. My grandfather had sheep and cows and pigs, right?

Julia Boatman: And chickens.

Loretta Taylor: He had them on our farm and his farm. So, he had quite a few animals that he raised. But when he got older, he got rid of the animals and just stuck with the crops, raising crops.
Justin Hawkins: Do you know what he grew?

Loretta Taylor: Oh, no.

Julia Boatman: I think he raised corn, soybeans mostly. That’s the main crops around here.

Justin Hawkins: Yeah, that makes sense.

Julia Boatman: That was the major crops that he did, yeah.

Justin Hawkins: And, uh, sorta, last big question is what does ‘freedom’ mean to you and your family?

Loretta Taylor: Oh, that’s an interesting question. Hmm. Well...
Justin Hawkins: It’s a big one!

Julia Boatman: One of the things I wanna say is our ancestors came over as slaves, and we were transpired from that, what would you [????]. My father lived in Virginia, his family was from Virginia. So, yeah. 

Loretta Taylor: I don’t know, it’s freedom. It means a lot to us now. Now I think growing up...

Justin Hawkins: Like as adults?

Loretta Taylor: As adults, we find out how rich our heritage is, but when we’re young people, young kids, we weren’t really taught how important it was. But now, we, we see how important it is and how proud we should be of it. And, uh, how proud we are of this humanity, although a lot of people have moved away and things, but it was, I think it was a great place to grow up because everybody knew each other, you know, we were close-knit, and there was safety I think, within the community, which was, good people. There was safety that, you know, you knew everybody and if you needed help, you could get help, and things like that. And so, it means a lot, and I think it’s important for these projects like this to continue on. Because, sometimes you’ll be reading somewhere and you’ll read about this area, Longtown, you know. You’re surprised that, wow, you know? Because we just thought that this was probably nowhere when we were growing up. But now, we find out it is an important piece of history, and the people that came from here. 

Justin Hawkins: So is there anything I didn’t ask you about that you would like to share? Anything you can think of?

Julia Boatman: Do you want to share about our house?

Justin Hawkins: That sounds enticing! 

Loretta Taylor: Well, I don’t know what... My parents [???] what, back in the early 70’s, in the 80’s. My grandfather’s property had, I’m sorry. My grandmother, after he died, she moved into Greenville and got a smaller house. And sold the property to another man. Now, we used to live down on the other property and, um, my dad and mom sold our land, which is about 10 or 15 
acres I think, to a young couple, to a young caucasian couple. And, they gave them a break in the sale of the property and of the house and everything. And so, just recently we found out that the young couple split up. Well, they’re older now, that’s thirty-some years ago. They split up, and we found out the guy had all this memorabilia, guns, that he had collected. He had a lot of guns, he had, he had Ku Klux Klan memorabilia, and Nazi memorabilia. Okay? 

Julia Boatman: And you know, this community was mainly black.

Loretta Taylor: Although, it was always rumored there were Ku Klux Klan in the area, I mean that, we heard that, we didn’t know names or anything. So, we find it interesting that my father, as a black man, sold this property to a white couple. But then years and years later, we find out this guy has got all this memorabilia he collected. I don’t know if he was into it, or if he was just collecting it for the heck of it. If my dad knew that, he would have flipped I’m sure. Flipped in his grave. But, you know, they were willing to give the couple a chance to start a farm, or start out on their own and everything. And we did keep in contact with the family, through the years. We would go back up to the farm and “can we walk around here, we just wanna relive some memories.” They would let us and stuff like that. But it was quite a shock to learn all the stuff he had collected over the years.

Justin Hawkins: Would you have gone back if you had known?

Loretta Taylor: Well...

Justin Hawkins: Before he had moved out ?

Julia Boatman: That was our family’s property in the beginning. So, my aunt and her family came from Colorado, and we did drive up there. Nobody was home at the time and we just kinda was walking around and remembering things. And, it was quite a shock when we found out. 

Loretta Taylor: Because we saw the bill of sale or whatever it’s called, the bill of sale of stuff he was selling, we were shocked to say the least. So, we don’t know if he was part of that or he just admired collecting that kind of stuff, but anyway, that was the deal.

Justin Hawkins: Well, thank you so much for your time! 

Julia Boatman: Thank you!

Loretta Taylor: Thank you very much. 